[THEME MUSIC]
>> In 1945, a young Egyptian
farmer discovered some clay
jars in the back of a cave near
the city of Nag Hammadi, Egypt.
Inside these clay jars were
13 leather bound codices,
comprising 52 mostly
Gnostic texts.
These texts have been
translated and represent
one of the greatest
archaeological
as well as philosophical
discoveries of all time.
For the first time in
history, the ancient Gnostics
revealed their knowledge
without the interference
of a pope or monarch.
What we discover is
a far different view
of reality than that
of the other three
main Western religions.
>> The Gnostic texts are a
collection of books that were
discovered in Nag
Hammadi, Egypt in 1945.
They represent the
writings of the earliest
or first Christians.
In fact, the Gnostic
texts themselves
tell us that they were written
by the disciples of Jesus, who
appeared to them
after his Resurrection
and gave them instructions
and navigational formulas
for traveling in the afterlife.
So the Gnostic texts
are really considered
to be the secret or
lost teachings of Jesus.
"Gnosis" is a Greek word
that means "knowledge".
the Gnostics believed
that we each had
within us a divine
spark that manifested
our physical human body as
a vehicle for exploration
in this realm, but ultimately
that our divine spark became
trapped in this realm.
And the only way to
escape earth life
was to achieve knowledge,
enlightenment, or gnosis.
Gnosticism is really
the self-realization
or enlightenment of the
divine spark within us.
The Nag Hammadi
texts are vital to us
to understand the earliest
form of Christianity.
In fact, the true
Many of them were written
between 200 and 350 to 400 AD,
before Christianity
and the New Testament
as we know it was codified.
So it's actually a different
story and a different take
on Christianity, and
the important part of it
is that these are the
teachings of the living, risen,
or resurrected Jesus.
Traditional Christianity,
the New Testament,
focuses on the words that
Jesus spoke while he was
in the flesh and blood body.
The Gnostic texts
are the teachings
of Jesus in his
celestial flesh, where
he's returning after
his Resurrection
to assist the Gnostics and
guiding them into the afterlife
and in navigating the afterlife
realms, the kingdom of heaven.
Because the Gnostic texts refer
to the teachings of the living
Jesus, they were a threat
to traditional Christianity.
And this is why
they are attacked
by orthodox or
traditional Christians.
>> Fascinating movement that
took place between roughly 600
BC and just a little
into the AD years,
almost 1,000 years
where all of a sudden,
all these philosophies arose,
like some of the philosophies
of Plato.
The Gnostics later came
along and then adopted
some of those philosophies.
And in India, you get
this similar thing.
They often started off as
philosophers, like Buddhism.
Or Buddha said the gods are
not the highest thing here.
And these philosophies
generally tried
to help people escape the
reincarnation process.
For example, some of the
Greek philosophers that
arose from platonic philosophy
saying the same thing.
And the reincarnation process,
if you read the old creation
stories, was necessary
to create a slave race.
You had to basically keep
a soul in the human body,
keep it stuck there, or at
least returning if you wanted
to keep the slaveries going.
And that's what one of the
very first creation stories
talks about, like when they
bioengineered human beings,
they had to put a soul.
They had to put a consciousness
in that body to make it work,
right?
But what if the consciousness
says, I'm sick of this?
I'd rather go be something else.
I don't want to come back
and be a human slave again
on these stupid building
projects and starve and all
of that, or be
blasted by these ETs.
So basically, a reincarnation,
an involuntary reincarnation
process had to be instituted.
And what these
philosophies started to do,
they started to say,
no, this is not healthy.
We have to escape that.
And that was rather
revolutionary.
And to me, it's not necessary
that you have to escape it.
It's just having the choice,
whether you want to or not.
And right now, there's a
whole persuasion process
that's described in some
of the near-death studies,
or I should say the
intra-life studies, also,
that say there's just a very
strong persuasion process
that causes humans to keep
coming back, even reluctantly.
>> The Dead Sea Scrolls are the
books written by Jewish mystics
who call themselves the Essenes.
These were individuals
who claimed
they were living with
angels, and had received
teachings about
human transformation
in two celestial beings.
Their texts were stashed away
when Rome invaded Palestine
in 70 AD, hidden away
in caves, and they
were discovered
surreptitiously in 1947,
and caused a worldwide
sensation upon their discovery.
They are essentially
Gnostic in nature,
because the Essenes
themselves were Gnostics.
They were interested
in self-realization
and the perfection of the
human body, the transformation
of the body into a celestial
form or a light body form.
The Dead Sea Scrolls are
not labeled Gnostic texts
as are the Nag Hammadi
library, but the core
of them, the heart of
them is Gnostic in nature.
When we read the
Dead Sea Scrolls,
it becomes very clear that the
Essenes, these Jewish mystics,
Gnostic mystics, were
having close encounters
of the first, second,
third, and fourth kind.
They said they
were seeing angels.
They were seeing
things in the sky.
Portals were opening in the sky.
But beyond that, they
also had close encounters
of the fifth, sixth,
seventh, and eighth kind.
The close encounter
of the eighth kind
is human transformation
into a celestial being.
The Dead Sea Scrolls
clearly described
humans being taken,
possibly abducted
in a modern conversation,
but they didn't
think of it as abduction then.
They're taken into
the celestial realms,
and transformed into an
extraterrestrial or celestial
being by angels, who themselves
were extraterrestrials.
So the Dead Sea
Scrolls are actually
a first moment of
disclosure, is what they are.
This is very important, because
when they were discovered
in 1947, there was a parallel
event, the Roswell crash, when
for the first time
in modern history,
following shortly on Kenneth
Arnold's sighting of a squadron
of flying disks, that mass
consciousness began to think
about the possibility of
extraterrestrial visitors,
vis-a-vis the Roswell crash.
So it's a very powerful
confluence there,
or synchronicity, that the
Dead Sea Scrolls come out
of the ground at
the very same time
that a celestial disk crashes
into the ground in Roswell,
and now we have this
mixture happening.
It's like, OK, how did
these two things relate?
Is it possible that
some of the entities
that are described in the
Gnostic text, the Archons,
for example, match
up with the entities,
the alleged entities
that were found
in the crashed disc at Roswell.
When the Essenes are
talking about dealing
with extraterrestrial
beings, are these angels
or are these somehow
some other kind
of celestial or
extraterrestrial races?
Very important, very
powerful questions.
>> And there's one interesting
survey that was done by Helen
Wambach.
And she surveyed her
hypnotic regression subjects,
about several hundred
of them, and said,
did you want to come
back between lives?
Did you want to
come back to Earth?
2/3 said no way, I didn't
want to come back here.
And then we see that in the
near death studies, too.
Dr. Long has pointed
that out, too.
That even before
they go, even when
they're going to
come back, they say,
I don't want to come back here.
So that just shows that there's
a problem in this process.
I like to contrast those
studies and this information
about the reluctance
today of people
who have these experiences,
and their reluctance
then to come back to Earth, to
show why these philosophies may
have arisen like, with
Buddhism and all that.
Yeah, you shouldn't
have to come back.
But then the modern studies
then show this very powerful
persuasion process to
get people to come back,
like, oh, you have a mission.
And you have something
you need to learn.
And then people go, oh,
OK, I'll go back in.
That's the attitude.
But like I said, human
life can be good.
It's just if the
conditions were improved,
human life can be fun.
There's so much
evidence right now,
I think in near-death studies
and the between-lives studies,
reincarnation studies,
good, serious work
by real professional
people doing it.
I think it's just inescapable
to conclude that, yeah,
the consciousness is
separate from the body,
that the body relies on
a separate consciousness.
People call it a spirit, a soul,
whatever you want to call it.
So the ancient
Greeks, they started
to develop a philosophy
that the body became
a prison for the soul,
and that became then
the Gnostic idea
that grew out of some
of this Greek philosophy, and
became a very popular idea,
even with the early Christians.
It doesn't need to be
a prison for the soul.
It's just the way
it got manipulated
into perhaps this between-lives
amnesia, where we forget,
where we can't really
remember anymore
that we are really
a consciousness that
has this longer continuum.
Then maybe it becomes a prison.
But if we start
having those memories,
if we start realizing, hey,
this can just be a playground,
I think it has the capacity to
be a playground for the soul,
using the bodies, and
doing all these things,
and having all
these experiences.
So it just depends on what
is made of Earth experience,
as to whether it's a prison,
or whether it's a little toy
that we can play with.
>> What I found so compelling
about the Nag Hammadi texts,
well, a number of things.
One, that they were where
they were for so long,
from it's estimated maybe 400
BC, and the information going
back further, that they
couldn't be messed with,
like the texts in the religious
books that have been out
in the open, and therefore
had the potential
for being changed, and
of course biblical texts
have been changed massively.
So that was a big,
compelling thing for me,
that you were looking
at what they really
said rather than a
manipulated version of it.
But what hit me more
than anything else,
and was important for me,
is that I came across them
only after I had concluded many,
many things from other sources
of research since 1990.
And so I wasn't looking
at them as a one stop
shop for a belief system.
"Oh, the Nag Hammadi texts,
that's my belief system."
They were more a confirmation,
another significant strand
in the tapestry of the
correlation of information
ancient and modern.
And what do they talk about
they talked about a force, which
they called Archons.
They call them
the formless ones.
Because in their base state,
they have really no form.
And I symbolized there that this
Archontic force, shall we say,
that's basically
a computer virus.
It's a very, very distorted
state of awareness.
And when it manifests itself
in some extreme in humanity,
we call these
people psychopaths.
It's a deeply, deeply
extreme beyond belief
psychopathic state of awareness.
And they describe how
this awareness, which
they call among other names
the Demiurge, of the ruler,
created a fake reality by
making a sort of mad copy
of the original reality.
Now, we're back here to the
ancient-modern correlation,
because I'm saying what
they were describing
in their own language, in their
own symbolism from long ago
as we perceive time,
another illusion,
is actually describing the
creation of the simulation.
And it is my view
that the Lord God,
and the Gnostics who were
responsible for these Nag
Hammadi texts, the Gnostic
belief system, they described
the main manifestation of
this force as the Lord Archon,
or Demiurge.
The Essenes, when they wrote
their Dead Sea Scrolls,
knew that this information was
very powerful for humanity.
They were hunted by Rome.
They represented a direct
threat to the power structure
of that time.
When the Dead Sea Scrolls come
out of the ground in 1947,
they, too, represent
a direct threat
to the existing power structures
of the world, the US government
and the religious
structures that
developed around Christianity.
Because what they drew
into question severely was,
is this the origins
of Christianity?
Was Jesus an Essene?
John the Baptist was.
John the Baptist
initiated Jesus,
attuned him in the baptism.
Was he connecting him somehow
to an extraterrestrial race?
Suddenly Christianity
started to sound
like it's an alien
religion, or a religion that
was brought to Earth or promoted
by extraterrestrial beings.
That represents a direct
threat to the powers that be.
And this is one of the
reasons why the Dead Sea
Scrolls were covered up for as
many as three or four decades.
Initial reports
came out about what
was contained in the
scrolls, but the scholars
withheld vast amounts
of it for decades.
And I believe the
reason why is because
of its constant references
to extraterrestrial beings,
portals, celestial realms,
celestial cities, all kinds
of otherworldly entities that
are described in the Dead Sea
Scrolls, and how
they were actually
living with and
teaching the Essenes.
>> According to the Gnostics,
the goddess Sophia left her
home in the center
of the galaxy,
because she wanted to
create a world of unlimited
possibilities.
She built this world on Earth by
creating all of the life forms
that have ever existed here.
Her creation was amazing.
The plethora of life
forms she created
was unlike anything that
had ever been tried before.
>> In the Gnostic context,
Sophia is considered to be
the female counterpart
of the creator.
She is a renegade,
too, because she
breaks away from the heavenly
realm called the Pleroma,
and crosses over what
then was perceived
to be a forbidden boundary
between the material
and the immaterial
realm, and has
a hand in creating the material
realm in which we live.
The word "pleroma" means
a fullness or completion.
It's equated with heaven.
And some people
actually believe it
has a physical location in the
center of our Milky Way galaxy.
There's no question that
there was a Hindu and Buddhist
influence on the
development of Gnosticism,
going all the way back
to 600 BC in Babylon,
when the Jews were taken
captive from Jerusalem
and taken to Babylon,
and they're first
introduced to the dualistic
religion of the Zoroastrians,
they start to pick up this idea
of the battle between light
and dark that is
foundational to Gnosticism.
300 years later, these
same Jewish mystics
go and live in
Alexandria, Egypt.
At the same time
they're there, we
have Buddhist missionaries
coming from India
to Alexandria, where there's
this amazing library,
the Library of
Alexandria, and scholars
gathering from all
over the Middle East
and throughout Asia.
And they're all formulating
ideas about what?
About human
transformation, about human
ascension into the
celestial realms.
And this becomes the foundation
then of the Essene movement.
The Essenes' movement actually
started with the Therapeutae,
who were Buddhist
missionaries in Alexandria,
bringing this gnosis to
that part of the world.
Then these Essenes go back to
Jerusalem, back to Palestine.
They become the progenitors
of the later Gnostics.
The Gnostics can be described
as the children of the Essenes,
but the Essenes
themselves are children
of the Buddhist
missionaries, who
brought this gnosis from India.
So we see that we've
got a real lineage here
that we're actually
dealing with.
Christos is a light force
or a spiritual force.
It's transmittable.
We know this, because
John the Baptist was
the Essene baptizer of Jesus.
And at the baptism,
he transmitted to him
the Holy Spirit,
which is the Christos.
After the baptism,
Jesus now is referred
to as the Christos,
or the anointed one,
because he has received this
light force or vibration.
In the Gnostic
context, the Archons
are referred to as the rulers.
They're thought of as
agents of the Demiurge,
the creator of the universe.
The apostle Paul is
not very complimentary
towards the Archons,
describing them
as demonic beings, who seek
who control the human race.
He wrote letters, warning
humanity about the Archons
and how they are attempting
to infiltrate the human race.
>> The Gnostic texts are
constantly pointing out that
they believed the Earth was
being invaded from an off
planet species
called the Archons.
The Archons were like an
intergalactic spiritual
parasite that invades the minds
and psyches of common people,
turning them into a
type of psychopath.
The gnostics believed that
these negative entities
had entered into the psyches
of most of our leaders,
whether they're
kings or politicians.
The Gnostics preached
that one must never
fall under the sway of
a leader or a religion,
as that would open one
up to these alien forces.
>> I say that what's being
described in Genesis he is not
the creation of the world, but
the creation of the simulation.
And the bloodthirsty God
of the Old Testament I say
is this Archontic force.
And the Gnostics described
how, in very similar terms,
although from another
angle, as the Bible talks
about how the sons
of God, actually
the sons of the gods
in the original text,
interbred with the
daughters of men,
and basically changed
the human race.
What the gnostics do is talk
about basically the same thing
in the Nag Hammadi
texts, but they
talk about the infusion as a
result of this of what they
call the counterfeit spirit.
The counterfeit
spirit is, for me,
an expression of
this distortion.
And the common theme
through the ages
of some force of good and
some force of what people
call evil, battling
for supremacy.
When people talk about,
they have a dark side,
I say that's this
counterfeit spirit.
And the Native Americans
have this concept
of two wolves inside people.
One is goodness and
empathy and compassion.
One is evil, violence, hatred.
And they say which wolf wins?
The one you feed the most.
And of course, we have a
society in this fake reality
specifically designed
to make us feed
the counterfeit spirit, which is
this Archontic distortion as I
call it, influencing human
behavior and human perception.
And it's a frequency band.
It has to be.
Because it's a manifestation of
the Archontic frequency band.
>> In his letters, Paul is
describing the Gnostic theory
of alien intrusion, Archon
intrusion into the human race,
and warning us about these
extraterrestrial beings that
seek to take over our souls.
The Zaddakim are the
ultra righteous wing
of the Essene movement.
They believed in
human perfection.
In other words, that
humans can become
whole, holy, and complete,
just like Adam and Eve.
In the Gnostic belief, in
the garden of Eden story,
Adam and Eve did not have
bodies of flesh and blood.
They had light bodies.
And as a punishment, the
Old Testament god Yahweh
created coats of skin for
humanity, the flesh and blood
bodies that we inhabit.
The Gnostics were
intent on reclaiming
our original primordial
light bodies.
And this is what the Zaddakim
referred to as perfection,
returning to our
original perfection.
And this is very
difficult for some people.
They look at this
and think, well,
who are you to become perfect?
Nobody's perfect.
But the Zaddakim
believed that humans
could transform themselves
into perfect light beings,
actually returning to
our original condition.
Gnosticism was
attacked and destroyed
by Christian
orthodoxy, because it
claimed it possessed the
secret teachings of Jesus,
of the living Jesus, the
risen or resurrected Jesus.
Gnosticism also
promotes the idea
that any individual can have a
direct, personal, and visionary
experience with
the risen Christ.
If you can have that, what
do you need a pope for?
What you need a priest for?
What do you need a
church hierarchy for?
You don't.
The church sells the past
Jesus, the past actions.
Gnosticism says, let's
go into the future.
Let's move forward.
Today, we are experiencing a
dramatic revival of gnosticism
worldwide.
We're recovering knowledge
of the Gnostic Gospels.
We recovered the
Dead Sea Scrolls.
And now the public
literature is starting
to open up to the real secret
teachings of Jesus, which
is absolutely phenomenal.
>> So the more that you
re-evaluate self-identity from
little me to infinite me, the
more we expand awareness out
of the frequency band
of the Archontic force
of the counterfeit spirit,
the less that impacts upon
our behavior and
our perceptions,
and we start to
come from the heart.
What did the Gnostics say?
The counterfeit spirit hardened
the hearts of humanity.
Exactly!
What it's designed to do.
This is our connection
to infinite awareness.
They want us here and here,
in the belly, emotion,
low vibrational.
They don't want us here.
It's all systematic.
And so in the end, we can
talk forever about way
it's all unfolded
and how it's done.
But how it's undone is
that everything comes from.
This knows, because
it's connected
to that level of
awareness that does know.
This society worships
the intellect.
The intellect is the village
idiot compared with knowing,
with wisdom that
comes from here.
And therefore, the whole
education system, the media,
all of it, all the
sources of information
are directed at the
intellect, not the true self.
And so we celebrate scientists,
because they have a great mind,
but do they have a great
consciousness beyond mind?
And we can change that
whenever we choose,
because we're in control.
The idea that some external
force is in control
is completely illusory.
It is in theoretical control
because it's persuaded us
we have no power, and no
control over our lives,
and have no control over events.
And while we believe that,
that will be our experience.
We can change it tomorrow.
We can change it now.
It's just a choice.
To pull this
together, I'm saying
that what we call the
reptilians, and also that
the grays, others, too, I say
that they are manifestations
of this Archontic force.
And how interesting that the
Nag Hammadi texts talk about two
of the ways that this Archontic
force, as I call it, takes form
is through a reptilian form
and through a form that
is like a gray fetus.
And therefore, what the
reptilians are doing,
and what the greys are doing
in manipulating human society,
and what the human what
I call hybrid elite,
reptilian-human hybrid elite
that people call today's
the 1%, I say that that
elite and that reptilian gray
grouping are manifestations in
form of this Archontic force.
And ultimately that force
which takes no form,
that distortion is
ultimately the one that
is manipulating human society.
Almost every account
I've ever come across,
certainly ancient, certainly the
Nag Hammadi text, and certainly
people I've come across
on the inside in the world
today, there's a very, very
common theme between all
of them, and that's that
this force feeds off
human low vibrational emotion,
different expressions of fear.
And I say that it was
when this hijack happened
that fear came into the world.
I say this Archontic force,
this counterfeit spirit
is what we call fear.
And because you
can only feed off
that which you can make a
frequency connection to,
if you are fear and you
need to absorb energy
within your frequency, what
energy do you need to create?
Fear, and as much
of it as possible.
Look at the world.
I mean, what is the Second
World War in terms of fear?
And other things,
like anxiety and all
that, violence, conflict.
And so if you look at the
world from that perspective,
yes, we can break down why
certain wars are happening
and what the sequence is.
But from the Archontic force
point of view, war in itself
is an end.
Yes, they'll have an ideal
sequence, because of the way
they're manipulating human
society, but war in its end
is an end in itself.
The more war conflict you
have, both individual conflict
and collective conflict,
then the more of this energy
you are creating.
Look at the animal kingdom.
Look at the non-human
kingdoms of this reality.
They're killing fields.
Everything survives by
killing something else.
Everything is constantly
in fear of the next danger.
And I say that is not by
coincidence, but by design.
So they're feeding off us.
And also, the idea
is to assimilate us,
because very much in the theme
of the Borg in the "Star Trek"
series, who, by the
way, used to fly around
in black cubes, which is an
ancient symbol of Saturn,
so the assimilation
is assimilating
human consciousness into itself,
just like the Borg talked
about assimilating people
into its hive mind,
connecting human
awareness, the human mind
to artificial intelligence
via technology,
what does that create?
A hive mind, an assimilation.
And then comes the
question, what is AI?
I say that in its prime form,
it is the Archontic force,
and we, the human race, in
our intellectual stupidity,
are building a
technological vehicle
for this force, which
doesn't take form in the end,
to not only take over human
minds but take the world over.
Look at it.
AI is taking the world over,
and it's only just begun.
So this is a whole other area
about how the transhumanist
agenda is the Archontic
agenda to assimilate
the human race into itself.
>> There is a worldwide
renaissance of Gnostic beliefs
currently occurring.
This comes at a time when most
of the institutions of the past
are crumbling.
Perhaps these failing empires
of false belief systems
can be replaced by a world
philosophy that celebrates
knowledge and curiosity.
In our next episode, we'll
continue our exploration
of the myriad mysteries
present throughout the cosmos.